When Hank Jenkins opened the Plant Provocateur five years ago, he said he would often experience judgment and trust issues simply because he’s a black business owner. “People would come in, look at me and say, ‘I want to talk to the owner,’” Jenkins said on the phone earlier this week. Angry and hurting following the death late last month of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis, Jenkins said he’s trying to find ways to cope. Although many stores are beginning to reopen as coronavirus restrictions are being lifted, Jenkins has decided to move his Silver Lake plant and home boutique — a popular sanctuary for plant lovers because of Jenkins’ expert horticultural advice — from a bricks-and-mortar setting to online. “There are so many reasons why I shouldn’t be here talking to you,” Jenkins said. “I grew up in Michigan where Klan members terrified my family for years. My father taught my sisters and I that we had to give 2,000% if we want to be recognized. This is the reality of being a black business owner.” During his years in Silver Lake, Jenkins said he has befriended the tight community of mom-and-pop merchants along Sunset Boulevard and he “roots for them daily, and they do the same for me.” For those looking to support black-owned businesses in Los Angeles, we’ve started compiling the below resource guide that highlights such businesses and brands in fashion design, jewelry, beauty, home goods and accessories. (There’s also a companion list available from our colleagues in the Food section, which recently published a guide to more than 85 black-owned L.A. restaurants and other food businesses.)  Our collection is more of a starting point than a definitive list, and our hope is that in addition to patronizing and supporting these businesses you’ll also be motivated to submit other L.A.-based black-owned brands and businesses for inclusion on a future expanded and updated version of this list. (To bring a business to our attention, send us an email at image@latimes.com.) Because of the pandemic and the curfews currently in place across Los Angeles, not all of the businesses on our list — even the bricks-and-mortar retail stores — will be open. (For your personal health and safety, we suggest patronizing these businesses’ online outposts.) Adrien Sauvage (Menswear)Menswear designer  Sauvage, a London-to-Beverly Hills transplant of Ghanian descent, has dressed the likes of Dwyane Wade, LeBron James and, most recently, 2019 NBA draft pick Zion Williamson, who was tapped by the New Orleans Pelicans in a cream-colored, shawl-collar made-to-measure House of A. Sauvage tuxedo. asauvage.com A & D Wholesale Vintage Clothing (Vintage clothing wholesaler)Since 2006, Deborah Evans Vincent has been hand-picking and reselling high-quality men’s, women’s and children’s vintage apparel and accessories that range from the 1920s through the late 1990s. 3501 Union Pacific Ave., Los Angeles (appointment only), (310) 701-5126, advintageclothing.com Angela Dean (Womenswear)Over the last several decades, fashion designer Dean has expanded her celebrity client base (Oprah Winfrey, Madonna and Patti LaBelle, to name just three) and stable of brands that, in addition to House of Deanzign, now includes body-con dresses (Angela Dean Collection) and stylish shapewear (Shaped by an Angel). 4725 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 230-6761, deanzign.com Agnes Baddoo (Leather goods)Leather bags, totes and belts — and currently small bottles of hand sanitizer — handmade in Los Angeles.agnesbaddoo.com Baltimore Bag Company (leather goods)Don’t let the name of Jerey Ojeah’s 3-year-old leather-goods label fool you, his sturdy and stylish clutches, briefcases, totes and crossbody bags are all made right here in Los Angeles. They’re also sold here too — on an appointment-only basis at his Koreatown store or via the web. 3107 W. 6th St., Los Angeles, (213) 925-5636, bbcbags.com and etsy.com/shop/baltimorebagcompany Bephie (Apparel)Founded by Union co-owner Beth Birkett, Bephie’s laid-back, gender-neutral garments take inspiration from feminism and the black Southern California experience. bephiesbeautysupply.com Brownhaze (jewelry)The use of rocks and stones, wood, seashells and plants gives Len Brown’s handmade unisex bracelets and necklaces a chunky, hewn-from-nature vibe. Prices at the Brownhaze Etsy shop range from $25 (for a wood and nut Downward Dog necklace) to $65 for the Deep Blue Stone necklace that uses glass, leather, silver and stone. Instagram: @brownhazeshop Carl’s Atelier (Men’s apparel, art, home decor)Carl Louisville, whose Guerilla Atelier was a longtime fixture in downtown Los Angeles’ Arts District, offers his same eclectic mix of clothes, home decor, accessories and art in a more compact shopping-center space.Westfield Century City, 10250 Santa Monica Blvd., Los Angeles (424) 551-5081, westfield.com/centurycity  CharLi Beauty Bar (Facials, waxing, lashes) Licensed esthetician CharLi Taylor offers body waxing, eyelash extensions, facials and more. 5074 W. Pico Blvd., Los Angeles, (424) 258-0267, charlibeautybar.com Chiaristyle (fashion illustration)In the fashion business since the 1980s, designer Chari Coffey launched her illustrating and trend-concept storyboarding business in L.A. in 2013. Some of her workbooks and storyboards are available online, along with an assortment of floral crowns and bespoke fairy-tale dresses. chiaristyle.com CJ’s Elegance (Women’s apparel retailer)One of the oldest black-owned women’s retail clothing businesses in L.A., CJ’s marked a half-century in business last year. 4446 W. Slauson Ave., Los Angeles, (323) 299-1141, cjselegance.com Cross Colours (Men’s and women’s apparel)Launched in L.A. in 1989, Carl Jones’ and T.J. Walkers’ streetwear label with a bold color palette inspired by the Pan-African flag and motto “clothing without prejudice” was embraced by hip-hop and then, seemingly, the whole world. The founders and the brand are still around — and their message seems more relevant than ever. (It’s also the subject of an ongoing exhibition at the temporarily closed California African American Museum in Exposition Park.) crosscolours.com Curvy Bombshells (swimwear)Launched by Nicole Rionne in September of 2019 with the mantra “embrace your curves,” the made-in-L.A. swimwear brand Curvy Bombshells specializes in women’s swimsuits sizes 14 to 28 and sells online only. curvybombshells.com Damone Roberts (eyebrow sculpting)Over the last 18 years, makeup artist Roberts (one of the stars of TLC’s “10 Years Younger” series) has painted the faces and shaped the brows of an impressive list of celebrity clients including Oprah, Madonna, Beyoncé and Kim Kardashian West. He’s about to reopen his (currently shuttered) salon at a new location but, in the meantime, his brow pencils, powders, gels and tools are available online. 8383 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 50, Salon 206, Beverly Hills, (310) 271-2100, damoneroberts.com Fear of God (Apparel, accessories, footwear)Jerry Lorenzo’s upscale streetwear label has collaborated with some of the biggest names in the business — sneaker maker Nike and Italian luxury menswear label Ermenegildo Zegna, to name just two. fearofgod.com Jendayi Collection (Jewelry)Jewelry designer and owner Monnae Michaell’s custom-made, culturally inspired wedding rings and fine jewelry are on offer at two bricks-and-mortar by-appointment-only local locations, 4421 W. Slauson Ave. (inside Cultural Interiors), and 629 S. Hill Street downtown, (877) 898-7892, Jendayi.co. Julie Harris Designs (Bridal veils and accessories)Julie Harris Fisher has been designing and making bridal veils and other accessories for the bride-to-be since 1995. She assists clients in person by appointment only at her Studio City boutique and also sells her wares via Etsy, Studio City, (818) 308-5743, julieharrisdesigns.com and etsy.com/shop/BridalAndBeyond Kenneth Nicholson (Men’s and women’s apparel)A 4-year-old designer label that uses military inspiration as a jumping-off point for wide-legged trousers, quilted tunics and riffs on the white dress shirt. kennethnicholson.us  Kevan Hall Designs (Designer women’s apparel)A longtime red-carpet staple whose glamorous gowns have graced the likes of Virginia Madsen and Ruby Dee (at the Oscars), Paula Abdul and Vanessa Williams (at the Emmys) and Taraji P. Henson and Katherine Heigl (at the SAG Awards). Until the red carpets are back, you can at least snap up a reptile-print tunic with a matching face mask. Right now you can buy goods from the designer at 8313 Beverly Blvd., Los Angeles, kevanhalldesigns.com and etsy.com/shop/kevancares. Kolored Krowns (Jewelry)Gemstone and crystal prayer beads and jewels handmade in Los Angeles by Natalie Mitchell. koloredkrowns.com Kutula by Africana (Retailer of African-inspired fashions)Specializing in modern African-inspired fashions and run by second-generation owners Kay and Bo Anuluoha, whose handiwork appeared both on-screen and at the red-carpet premiere of “Black Panther.” 4438 W. Slauson Ave., Los Angeles, (323) 294-8151, shopkutula.com The Lace Lounge (Bras)Tiffany Fitzgerald has been in the bra business for the last five years, stocking bra sizes 28-38 and cup sizes A-K as well as providing expert bra fittings and in-house alterations and repairs. Currently open by appointment only, 1080 S. La Cienega Blvd. Suite 209, Los Angeles, (310) 904-3600, thelacelounge.com Lavie by CK (Designer apparel, masks)Self-taught fashion designer Claude Kameni’s 8-year-old label is full of brightly colored, boldly patterned L.A.-made pieces for men and women that can be purchased through her website or custom-designed by appointment only. She recently launched a line of masks (some with matching hair ties) in African-culture-inspired prints with all proceeds funding the production of masks donated to medical personnel.laviebyck.com and laviebyckmask.com Los Angeles Oils and Butters (skin care)Licensed aesthetician Jerron “Ronnie” Mitchell launched his DTLA-based skin care line in 2017 and sells his acne-zapping, skin-toning Tea Tree Serum Kits and spot-fading Emu Serum Kits (the brand’s two bestsellers), oil-infused African black soaps and other potions and lotions online at losangelesoilsandbutters.com. Instagram: @losangelesoilsandbutters Lucy’s Boudoir (lingerie)Owner and head-fitting specialist Crystal Rogers aims to have a bra for every body type and need (including special bridal, nursing and postmastectomy bras) at her Long Beach boutique, and if she doesn’t stock it, she’ll source it. In-person fittings are currently on hold (and boutique hours drastically scaled back) due to the coronavirus pandemic but virtual and phone appointments are available and a range of bras, underwear, swimwear and lingerie can be ordered online for delivery or curbside pickup at the boutique. 3925 Long Beach Blvd., Long Beach, (562) 997-8786, lucysboudoir.com Lot XI (Apothecary)Krystyl Wright’s Compton-based apothecary sells soaps, candles and body products, and will soon sell weighted blankets. lotxi.com Nena’s Organics (Beauty)Until the coronavirus outbreak threw her a curveball, you would have been able to find Nena Addison’s plant-based, organic health and beauty products (think lavender body scrubs, lemongrass lip balms and bars of turmeric soap) at upcoming farmers markets in Long Beach and Westwood. For now, you can find them at her website. (323) 493-8042, nenasorganics.com Neon Cowboys (Hats, accessories, face masks)Asia Hall (daughter of designer Kevan Hall, who also appears on this list) is the founder, owner and CEO of this 6-year-old fashion-meets-technology brand that specializes in light-up, western-inspired accessories (think glowing cowboy hats and LED cactus earrings). In response to the pandemic, she recently launched glowing face masks made with fiber-optic fabric. Primarily e-commerce with a small pop-up at her father’s L.A. atelier. 8313 Beverly Blvd., (407) 250-6066, neoncowboys.com Nobody Jones Boutique (Women’s apparel)Jersey dresses, separates and jumpsuits designed by owner Odessa Bowden-Sierra.5593 W. Pico Blvd, Los Angeles, (323) 291-7177, nobodyjones.bigcartel.com Nyakio (beauty)Nyakio Kamoche Grieco, a first-generation American of Kenyan descent, tapped family beauty hacks (think using coffee beans and sugar cane to exfoliate dry skin) for a namesake skin-care line that recently launched at Target in partnership with Sundial Brands. nyakio.com and target.com One-of-a-Kind Hats (Hats)Second-generation owner Meeka Robinson Davis specializes in custom-designed hats that have been worn by the likes of Patti LaBelle and the late Aretha Franklin, but also offers an extensive selection of ready-to-wear headgear. 4432 W. Slauson Ave., Los Angeles (323) 296-0130, 1ofakindhats.com Perry White (Women’s and men’s apparel)From briefs and multizippered track pants for men to latex bodysuits and mesh dresses for women, White’s wares scream sexy and whisper “Buy me now.” 837 Traction Ave., Los Angeles, (626) 379-4749, perrywhite.la Pinky Rose Boutique (Designer women’s apparel)Marcia “Pinky Rose” Charles’ clothing store has been an anchor in the Pico shopping corridor since 2003. 5372 W. Pico Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 936-9213, pinkyroseboutique.com Plush Armour (Handmade clothing; health) Hand-knit sweaters and scarves by Chasten Harmon. Harmon also hosts health consultations and monthly gatherings designed to create a safe space to explore different healing modalities for BIPOC. plusharmour.com/shop ProjectQ Salon and Community Center (Health and beauty)The nonprofit ProjectQ provides free haircuts, hair color, and wigs to LGBTQIA+ youth experiencing homelessness. (213) 617-8442, projectq.me Rec Room (women’s apparel)Dre Taylor Lindsay cofounded and co-owns (with Val Young) the L.A.-based women’s athleisure label Rec Room, which launched last year with the simple concept of making everyday wear out of the same fabrics as workout wear. The result is a range of buttery soft T-shirts, shorts, turtlenecks and dresses with four-way stretch, wrinkle resistance and antimicrobial properties. The entirely women-owned (and 50% Black-owned) brand manufactures its apparel in California and recently announced that it would channel 1% of gross sales into a racial justice initiative benefiting organizations working to eradicate systems of racial injustice across the country (the first year’s beneficiaries will be theEqual Justice Initiative andthe Loveland Foundation.) In addition to selling through a few bricks-and-mortar pop-ups across the country (as safety guidelines allow, check the website for dates and locations), the label is available online atrec-room.com. Renowned (Apparel)John Dean, the founder and chief executive of the 7-year-old L.A.-based streetwear brand, just launched a Heroes of Blackness T-shirt ($35, preorder now for delivery in three weeks) with all proceeds going to Black Lives Matter, the George Floyd Foundation and Reclaim the Block. Renowned.la The Runway Boutique (Clothing, accessories)Fatima Dodson’s West Adams boutique sells head wraps, clothing, jewelry and accessories. She calls it a blend of “afrocentric, care-free, Brooklyn bohemian fashion-forward goodness.” shoprunwayboutiquela.com Sergio Hudson (Women’s ready-to-wear)Sexy, strong-shouldered suits and curve-hugging, skin-baring dresses are the namesake designer’s specialty. High-profile customers include Beyoncé, former First Lady Michelle Obama, Tracee Ellis Ross and Jennifer Lopez. sergiohudson.com Sika (Art, jewelry, apparel)A longtime Leimert Park store specializing in handmade jewelry, art, apparel and African imports.4330 Degnan Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 295-2502, facebook.com/pages/Sikas/111019782374615 The Small Shop L.A. (Apparel, accessories)Founder and owner Joel Stallworth opened the doors of his space at 6th and Spring streets in 2016, stocking it with locally sourced and manufactured streetwear pieces like the arrow-and-palm-tree-emblazoned Lost in Los Angeles T-shirts, ball caps and sweatshirts. The DTLA shop is set for a soft reopening on June 19, but the website is open 24-7. 215 W. 6th St. #108, Los Angeles, (209) 298 2562, thesmallshopla.com Stitches Technology Business & Career Centers Inc. (Apparel-industry nonprofit)Founded by designer and president Clotee McAfee in 1992, this local nonprofit trains sewing-machine operators for work in the apparel industry and recently donated more than 20,000 mask to hospitals and nursing homes in underserved communities around the country. 342 N. San Fernando Road, Los Angeles, (310) 462-5970, stitchestech.org Stuzo Clothing (Apparel)Gender-free streetwear label founded in 2010 by Uzo Ejikeme and Stoney Michelli that mixes humor with messages of inclusion (for example, T-shirts screenprinted with the declaration “Yup, still gay!”).4751 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 917-5050, stuzoclothing.com Tamra Copper L.A. (water bottles, accessories)Cheryl Freeman founded her business importing Ayurvedic copper water bottles and accessories from India in 2016 (the name of the brand comes from the Sanskrit “tamra jal,” which means “copper water”) and was one of the L.A. brands chosen to participate in Los Angeles Rive Gauche, an L.A.-themed retail pop-up at Le Bon Marché department store in Paris in late 2018. Her wares are available at her own website as well as via Anthropolgie. tamracopperla.com and anthropologie.com Triangular Faces (Streetwear)Fashion designer Nana Kwame Adusei hails from Accra, Ghana, arrived in L.A. last year and launched his African culture-inspired, locally manufactured, unisex athleisure-meets-streetwear label just as the safer-at-home coronavirus guidelines were taking effect. His Mursi shorts, baggy, flower-festooned boardshorts inspired by the Mursi people of Ethiopia, are available online. Triangularfaces.com Union Los Angeles (Apparel, accessories, footwear) Avant garde meets streetwear at Chris Gibbs’ and Beth Birkett’s boutique in the “guy’s gulch” stretch of La Brea Avenue. 110 S. La Brea Ave., Los Angeles, (323) 549-6950, store.unionlosangeles.com Waraire Boswell (Men’s and women’s apparel)Sharp-looking custom suits for men and women, custom footwear and, in response to the coronavirus outbreak,  stylish masks using fabrics from previous collections. waraire.com 2dollz (glassware)Sisters Adrianna and Kamilah Alexander customize glassware for weddings, birthday parties, date nights, corporate events and other special occasions. If you’re in need of glitter-covered shot glasses, bride-to-be trucker hats festooned with Swarovski crystals or pearl-encrusted Champagne flutes, look no further than the 2dollz Etsy shop. The brand recently launched a Kickstarter campaign to raise funds to gift healthcare heroes and essential workers with ceramic mugs bearing hand-painted messages of support like “Nurses are heroes” and “Thanks Doc.” Instagram: @the2dollz Antique Stove Heaven (Vintage stoves and stove restoration)Winsor Williams sells old stoves as well as repairs, restores and cleans them. 5414 S. Western Ave., Los Angeles, (323) 298-5581, antiquestoveheaven.com Breegan Jane (Interior design, jewelry)Proceeds from the HGTV host’s handmade jewelry benefits the World Vision’s child protection through education in Kenya campaign. breeganjane.com Bridgid Coulter (Interior design) In addition to her residential and commercial design projects, the Santa Monica-based interior designer has a line of eco-conscious textiles. 1112 Montana Ave. #432, Santa Monica, (310) 963-5360, bridgidcoulter.com Brigette Romanek (Interior design)The Los Angeles-based interior designer whose clients include Eric Buterbaugh and Misty Copeland tackles commercial, retail and residential projects. 1050 N. Cahuenga Blvd., Los Angeles, (310) 600-7133, romanekdesignstudio.com‬ Cain Interiors & Construction (Interior design)This 20-year-old firm is behind some of the more striking, artful modern homes in Bel-Air, Beverly Grove and Trousdale Estates. 406 N. La Cienega Blvd., West Hollywood, (310) 652-6065, caininteriors.com Colette SheltonThe interior designer, blogger and home furnishings designer is the host of “COCOCOZY Design House” on Amazon Prime Video. (310) 275-4189, cococozy.com Cultural Interiors (Home decor)Owner Gail Hawkins travels extensively throughout the country and the Caribbean in search of one-of-a-kind home decor items. 4421 W. Slauson Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 292-1500, culturalinteriors.com Ekua Ceramics (Ceramics)Long Beach ceramist Sara Ekua Todd creates drinkware and dinnerware, in addition to collaborations with brands such as Brain Dead, among others. ekuaceramics.com/shop Eso Won Books (Books, graphic novels, events)An independent bookstore in Leimert Park specializing in literature that chronicles the black experience.4327 Degnan Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 290-1048, esowonbookstore.com Faith Blakeney (Interior design)The interior designer says her studio’s approach “disregards convention in favor of innovation, collaboration, play, out-of-the-box thinking and social conscience.” We featured her work in an October house tour in Silver Lake. faithblakeney.com 45 Three Modern Vintage Home (Furniture, antiques, art)Owner Staci Cain is known for giving vintage furnishings from around the globe a glow-up. Her Little Ethiopia shop features midcentury modern furniture, art and accessories. 1051 S. Fairfax Ave., Los Angeles, (323) 932-0832, 45threemodernvintagehome.com Interior Obsession (Interior design)Interior designer Lisa Turner’s full-service design firm specializes in high-end residential and commercial design. Her philosophy is “a love of color and respect for architecture.” (310) 777-0025, interiorobsession.com Justina Blakeney (Furniture, home accessories) The Los Angeles-based designer’s Jungalow brand includes a wide variety of collaborations including furniture, accessories, rugs and apparel. On May 30, Blakeney donated the net proceeds of Jungalow sales — $12,000 — to Black Lives Matter. jungalow.com Jeanetta Gonzales (Designer, illustrator)The Los Angeles-based graphic designer specializes in patterns, branding, lettering and illustration.  jeanettagonzales.com Kimberleigh Aarn (Ceramics)The North Hollywood artist creates functional and decorative pottery out of Xiem Clay Center in Pasadena. etsy.com/shop/claybykimberleigh Knibb Design (Interior and landscape design)Venice designer Sean Knibb has collaborated on many notable landscape, furniture and architectural projects including the Line Hotel in Koreatown. His Flowerboy Project cafe and flower shop in Venice, sells fresh flowers, gifts and coffee. (310) 450-5552, knibbdesign.com, flowerboyproject.com Latifah Saafir Studio (Quilts)Known for her colorful modern quilts, Saafir also designs patterns, templates and fabric. She is the cofounder of the Los Angeles Modern Quilt Guild and the Modern Quilt Guild and travels the country teaching quilting. latifahsaafirstudios.com Linda Hayslett (Interior design)Interior designer Hayslett’s LH Designs firm offers residential, commercial design and interior styling. (310) 955-4118, lhdesigned.com Mann Handmade (Ceramics)Ceramist Sharon Mann says she creates “everyday dishes for extraordinary people.” She teaches and produces her work out of Echo Art Studio in Palms. (818) 482-3231, mannhandmade.com Marie Burgos Design (Interior design)In addition to her full-service interior design firms based in New York and Los Angeles, Burgos is a feng shui expert. (310) 775-3309, marieburgosdesign.com RUME by Tauska (Interior design)Los Angeles-based Tauska Trusaun-Kennedy has been practicing as a professional interior designer for over a decade. Her firm was recently involved with a complete remodel of the Lamp Village homeless shelter in DTLA. Offices at 8200 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 421, Beverly Hills, (333) 348-8697, rumebytauska.wixsite.com/mysite Tactile Matter (Pottery, illustration) Ceramics and illustrations by Kenesha Sneed. Up next? A spring/summer 2020 collaboration with fashion label Marella. tactilematter.com Torch L.A. (Candles)Claunesha “Cjay” Jones created her handcrafted coconut-wax candle line with “luxury-meets-eco-friendly” in mind. torchla.com  The Underground Museum (Books, clothing) The family-run space, founded in 2012 by Noah and Karon Davis, includes a bookstore that sells T-shirts and books. 3508 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 989-9925, the-underground-museum.square.site/#KTHjFY Walker Noble StudiosOriginal artworks and limited edition prints by Walker Noble made in downtown Los Angeles. (213) 290-3731, walkernoble.com  Bloom & Plume Coffee (Floral designs, coffee, apparel, accessories)Artist and floral designer Maurice Harris recently opened a cafe next to his studio, selling coffee, merchandise and more. 1638-1640 W. Temple St., Los Angeles, (213) 908-5808, bloomandplume.com Contained Bliss (Landscapes) A women-owned and operated landscape design and installation business, certified in landscape design with a degree in Ornamental Horticulture. (818) 636-0585, containedbliss.com Leafy Green Creations (Plant delivery) Locally grown, gift plants are delivered for free within 5-7 days after your order is received. leafygreencreation.com Compostable (Composting service)This residential compost delivery service will pick up your compostable food scraps and drop them at an urban farm. Simply place your bin outside on collection day, and they will pick it up and leave you a clean bin its place. compostablela.com Just Succ ItSucculent arrangements, gift boxes, and seasonal decor designed by Andrea Chasse-Galbreath. justsuccit.com Logan’s Gardens (Edible plants)Gardener to the stars Jimmy Williams and his son, Logan, grow and sell more than 1,000 varieties of heirloom edible plants Wednesdays and Saturdays at the Santa Monica Farmers Market and Sundays at the Hollywood Farmers Market. instagram.com/logansgardens Offerings (Floral studio)Floral designer Schentell Nunn creates flowers for delivery, weddings, events and workshops. offerings.co The Plant Chica (Plants)Sandra Adis delivers houseplants to your door and hosts occasional “Adopt-A-Plant” events. etsy.com/shop/Theplantchica The Plant Mon by Easton Garden Designs (Plants)Louis Easton provides houseplants for sale and delivery as well as garden design services, workshops and arrangements. theplantmon.com The Plant Provocateur (Houseplants, exotics, flowers and gifts, workshops) Hank Jenkins’ tiny Silver Lake boutique features a wide variety of houseplants, exotics, flowers and gifts. He also hosts regular workshops on houseplant care and DIY projects. 3318 W. Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 774-4836, plantprovocateur.com Queen Boutique (Plants, eyewear, jewelry, masks)Houseplants, accessories and, for the month of June, artworks by black artists. 5011 W. Pico Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 578-7724, queenlosangeles.com  The Ron Finley Project (Gardening, T-shirts)The former fashion designer-turned-Gangsta Gardener recently taught MasterClass lessons on gardening and sells T-shirts online. ronfinley.com Whit Hazen (Floral design studio)Whit McClure’s boutique floral design studio specializes in seasonally inspired florals for weddings and events. (213) 309-8851, whithazen.com 