Zero-waste refill stations offer a spot for you to fill up on bulk household and personal care items. Products vary from store to store but generally include things like dish soap, household cleaners, laundry detergent, shampoo, conditioner, body wash, hand soap, lotion, facial products and other personal care items. They’re easy to use: Just bring a container from home or buy one at the store, weigh it, fill it up with as much (or as little) product as you want, and bring it to the cash register to be weighed again. You only pay for what you take. It’s a way to reduce your personal plastic waste, potentially save money, and signal to larger stores and manufacturers that there’s a demand for zero-waste products and services. When Stephanie Cochrane moved to L.A. two years ago, she embraced the idea of living frugally and with less plastic waste. Friends would comment on her Instagram Stories, which showed her making her own deodorant and facial cream. “They would be like, ‘That’s awesome, but i don’t have the time for that,’” she said. “That’s kind of when it clicked in my head that it was something that I really enjoyed doing, and I wanted to help my friends see that it could be easy and convenient.” So she opened the Waste Less Shop in Manhattan Beach in October 2019. Cochrane likened the refill stations to an almost nostalgic shopping experience — hearkening back to refilling jars and flour sacks at the country store. Part of the fun is that “it is old-fashioned,” she said. For owner Leslie Campbell, the idea for Sustain L.A. was also the natural extension of her personal zero-waste journey. She spent hours exploring the undeveloped woods behind her parents’ house in central Illinois, which she said gave her a deep appreciation for nature. Before she started Sustain L.A., she managed a restaurant where she convinced the owner to eliminate Styrofoam, switch to eco-friendly cleaners and start L.A.'s food-scrap program. Sustain L.A. began as a refill station at farmers markets in the summer of 2018. (You can still find Sustain L.A. at the ones in Hollywood and Atwater Village.) She built a solid enough customer base to open a bricks-and-mortar store a year later.  Unlike the Waste Less Shop and Sustain L.A., Otherwild didn’t start as a zero-waste store. It opened in L.A. in 2012, and moved to its Los Feliz location in February 2016. A New York City location opened that same year. The brand catapulted to national attention for its “The Future Is Female” shirts during the 2016 presidential election. It started as a more broad general store that sells clothing, tote bags, candles, housewares and gifts. Owner Rachel Berks, who had been trying to reduce plastic waste in her own life, wanted to add something new. The refill station opened in the back of the Los Feliz location in April 2019. She hopes it’s a model for other shops. “The reason I call it Otherwild General is the idea of a general store, the store on every corner,” Berks said. “How great would it be if we could walk into that store and refill our dish or laundry soap?” There are several zero-waste refill stations in and around Los Angeles. We’ve organized them here by neighborhood. Highland Park Sustain L.A.5214 Monte Vista St., Los Angelessustainla.com Wild Terra5858 N. Figueroa St., Los Angeleswildterra.la Los Feliz Otherwild Goods & Services1768 N. Vermont Ave., Los Angelesotherwild.com Glassell Park No Tox Life3351 Fletcher Drive, Los Angelesnotoxlife.com Brentwood farmers market Without Waste ShopMobile refill stationwithoutwasteshop.com/locations Echo Park, Hollywood, Mar Vista, Playa Vista farmers markets The Refillery L.A.Mobile refill station — various farmers markets and eventsrefilleryla.com/location Silver Lake, Echo Park, Los Feliz, downtown L.A., Culver City, Palms Naked FrankieOffers home delivery to select ZIP codesnakedfrankie.com Burbank, Montrose, Toluca Lake farmers markets Lola DangerMobile refill station — various farmers markets and eventsloladanger.com Pasadena Ban SUP Refill25 S. El Molino Ave., Pasadenabansuprefill.com Altadena, Monrovia farmers markets Refill EvolutionMobile refill station — various farmers markets and eventsrefillevolution.com/ Altadena Strictly Sustainable Altadena — located inside Altadena Beverage1850 Allen Ave., PasadenaNo website - hours, location and phone number available on Yelp Duarte, Monrovia, Arcadia and Azusa Riley’s General StoreMobile refill station — offers home deliveryrileysgeneralstore.com/deliveries Manhattan Beach The Waste Less Shop3515 Highland Ave., Manhattan Beachthewastelessshop.com Venice Recontained1629 Abbot Kinney Blvd., Venicerecontained.com Calabasas, Pacific Palisades, Hidden Hills farmers markets ProstainableMobile refill station — various farmers markets and eventsprostainable.com Topanga The Well120 S. Topanga Canyon Blvd #100, Topangathewellrefill.com Ventura The Refill Shoppe363 E. Main St., Venturatherefillshoppe.com Long Beach BYO Long Beach — downtown location431 E. 1st St., Long Beachbyolongbeach.com BYO Long Beach — Alamitos Bay location148 N. Marina Drive, Long Beachbyolongbeach.com Costa Mesa Eco Now CA2930 Bristol St., #A112, Costa Mesaeconowca.com Encinitas The Nada Shop937 S. Coast Highway 101, Encinitasthenadashop.com San Juan Capistrano Farm Stand at the Ecology Center32701 Alipaz St., San Juan Capistranotheecologycenter.org/farmstand/ Did we miss your store? Email jessica.roy@latimes.com to be added to the list.